README.md, before:

# 15 Puzzle Game

A classic sliding puzzle game implemented as a C# console application.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [How to Play](#how-to-play)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Future Implementations](#future-implementations)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction
The 15 Puzzle Game is a classic sliding tile puzzle that consists of 15 numbered tiles on a 4x4 grid, with one empty space. The objective is to arrange the numbers in sequential order by sliding tiles into the empty space.

This project is a C# console application where users can play the game directly from the terminal, moving tiles using the arrow keys.

## How to Play
- The game starts with a randomized 4x4 grid, consisting of 15 numbered tiles and one empty space.
- You can move tiles by using the arrow keys to slide them into the empty space.
- The goal is to arrange the tiles in ascending order (from 1 to 15) with the empty space in the last position.
- Solve the puzzle in as few moves as possible.

## Features
- **Randomized Start**: Each new game generates a shuffled puzzle.
- **Move Counter**: Keeps track of the number of moves you've made.
- **Reset Game**: Option to restart the game at any time.
- **Victory Check**: Notifies you when the puzzle is solved.

## Installation
To run the game locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/SwizzleZticks/FifteenPuzzle.git

## Usage
Once the application starts, the puzzle will appear in the console as a 4x4 grid.
Use the arrow keys on your keyboard to slide tiles around.
  - Up Arrow: Move the empty space up.
  - Down Arrow: Move the empty space down.
  - Left Arrow: Move the empty space left.
  - Right Arrow: Move the empty space right.

Continue moving the tiles until they are arranged in ascending order from 1 to 15, with the empty space in the bottom-right corner.

## Technologies Used
- C#: The core language used for developing the game.
- .NET 8.0: The framework for building and running the console application.

## Future Implementations
- User choice gameboard size
- Moving to WPF, mobile, and web versions
- Leaderboard, and personal stats

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

added current state and what's next section

README.md, after:

# 15 Puzzle Game

A classic sliding puzzle game implemented as a C# console application.

## Current State and What's Next
Game is in a completed state and moving to a state of adding features.
Will be adding profiles for players that records scores, and also a timer.
Following that will be the leaderboard and a database.

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [How to Play](#how-to-play)
- [Features](#features)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Future Implementations](#future-implementations)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction
The 15 Puzzle Game is a classic sliding tile puzzle that consists of 15 numbered tiles on a 4x4 grid, with one empty space. The objective is to arrange the numbers in sequential order by sliding tiles into the empty space.

This project is a C# console application where users can play the game directly from the terminal, moving tiles using the arrow keys.

## How to Play
- The game starts with a randomized 4x4 grid, consisting of 15 numbered tiles and one empty space.
- You can move tiles by using the arrow keys to slide them into the empty space.
- The goal is to arrange the tiles in ascending order (from 1 to 15) with the empty space in the last position.
- Solve the puzzle in as few moves as possible.

## Features
- **Randomized Start**: Each new game generates a shuffled puzzle.
- **Move Counter**: Keeps track of the number of moves you've made.
- **Reset Game**: Option to restart the game at any time.
- **Victory Check**: Notifies you when the puzzle is solved.

## Installation
To run the game locally, follow these steps:

1. Clone this repository:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/SwizzleZticks/FifteenPuzzle.git

## Usage
Once the application starts, the puzzle will appear in the console as a 4x4 grid.
Use the arrow keys on your keyboard to slide tiles around.
  - Up Arrow: Move the empty space up.
  - Down Arrow: Move the empty space down.
  - Left Arrow: Move the empty space left.
  - Right Arrow: Move the empty space right.

Continue moving the tiles until they are arranged in ascending order from 1 to 15, with the empty space in the bottom-right corner.

## Technologies Used
- C#: The core language used for developing the game.
- .NET 8.0: The framework for building and running the console application.

## Future Implementations
- Moving to WPF, mobile, and web versions
- Leaderboard, and personal stats

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.
